README.md, before:

Karma Config
==============================

### Karma configuration builder with sensible defaults to minimize boilerplate

[![Cross-Platform Compatibility](https://jstools.dev/img/badges/os-badges.svg)](https://travis-ci.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config)
[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config)

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/JS-DevTools/karma-config/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/JS-DevTools/karma-config?branch=master)
[![Dependencies](https://david-dm.org/JS-DevTools/karma-config.svg)](https://david-dm.org/JS-DevTools/karma-config)

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@jsdevtools/karma-config.svg?maxAge=43200)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jsdevtools/karma-config)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@jsdevtools/karma-config.svg?maxAge=2592000)](LICENSE)



[**Karma**](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/index.html) can be [**configured**](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/config/configuration-file.html) to do pretty much anything you can imagine, but you'll probably find yourself repeating the same boilerplate configuration in every project.

Karma Config eliminates the redundancy and boilerplate by applying sensible defaults so you only need to specify the one-off settings that are particular to your project.  It can reduce a typical `karma.config.js` file from dozens of lines to just two or three lines.



Features
--------------------------
- Applies sensible defaults, but will never override your settings
- Uses the appropraite browsers for the platform (e.g. Safari on Mac, Edge on Windows)
- Uses headless browsers when running in CI/CD
- Produces code-coverage reports if `KARMA_COVERAGE` env var is set, or if you add `--coverage` when running Karma



Related Projects
--------------------------
- [karma-host-environment](https://jstools.dev/karma-host-environment)<br>
  Provides host environment info (user agent, Node.js version, environment variables, etc.)



Installation
--------------------------
Use [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm/) to install Karma Config as a dev dependency.  Be sure to install [karma](https://www.npmjs.com/package/karma) and [karma-cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/karma-cli) too.

```bash
npm install --save-dev karma karma-cli @jsdevtools/karma-config
```



Usage
--------------------------

### Using Default values
For typical projects, the defaults may be all you need, in which case your config can be one line:

**karma.conf.js**

```javascript
module.exports = require("@jsdevtools/karma-config")();
```

Depending on the operating system and whether its running in a CI/CD environment, the above code will produce this config:

```javascript
{
  // Defaults to the Karma-Verbose-Reporter
  // See https://www.npmjs.com/package/karma-verbose-reporter
  reporters: ["verbose"],

  // The browsers will vary depending on the OS.
  // In CI/CD environments, FirefoxHeadless and ChromeHeadless are used instead.
  browsers: ["Firefox", "Chrome"],

  frameworks: [
    // Defaults to the Mocha test framework.
    "mocha",

    // This makes it easy to detect which browser your tests are running in.
    // Also provides access to environment variables.
    // See https://jstools.dev/karma-host-environment
    "host-environment"
  ],

  files: [
    // Assumes your tests are under the "test" folder and are named *.spec.js
    // or *.test.js.  (.mjs and .jsx file extensions are also supported)
    "test/**/*.+(spec|test).+(js|jsx|mjs)",

    // Allows your tests to dynamically access any file in the "test" folder.
    // Useful for loading test data from CSV or JSON files.
    { pattern: "test/**/*", included: false, served: true }
  ],

  preprocessors: {
    // Uses Webpack to bundle your tests and their dependencies
    "test/**/*.+(spec|test).+(js|jsx|mjs)": ["webpack"]
  },

  webpack: {
    // Webpack development mode it easier to debug failing tests
    mode: "development",

    // Inlne source maps ensure proper stack traces in errors,
    // and allow you to debug your original source code rather than bundled code.
    devtool: "inline-source-map",
  }
}
```



### Adding or Overriding Settings
You can explicitly specify any Karma settings, and Karma Config will honor them.  Your settings will be merged with the settings that Karma Config generates.  This allows you to add additional settings that aren't normally set by Karma Config.  It also allows you to override anything that Karma Config would normally generate.

**karma.conf.js**

```javascript
module.exports = require("@jsdevtools/karma-config")({
  config: {
    port: 12345,                                // Set Karma's port number
    browserNoActivityTimeout: 5000,             // Set Karma's inactivity timeout
    browsers: ["Opera", "Safari"]               // Always use these browsers, regardless of OS
    webpack: {
      mode: "production",                       // Override the default Webpack mode
      module: {
        rules: [
          { test: /\.ts$/, use: "ts-loader" }   // Configure Webpack to support TypeScript
        ]
      }
    }
  }
});
```

Another option is to use Karma Config's `buildConfig` function, which returns the generated config object.  You can then make whatever modifications you want to it before passing it to Karma.

**karma.conf.js**

```javascript
const { buildConfig } = require("@jsdevtools/karma-config");

module.exports = (karma) => {
  // Let Karma Config generate its config, as usual
  let config = buildConfig();

  // Modify the config object however you want
  config.port = 12345;
  config.browserNoActivityTimeout = 5000;
  config.browsers.push("Opera");
  config.webpack.mode = "production";
  config.webpack.module.rules.push({ test: /\.ts$/, use: "ts-loader" });

  // Pass the final config to Karma
  karma.set(config);
});
```



Options
--------------------------
Karma Config exposes a few options that allow you to control the config that it generates. Here's an example that demonstrates setting a few options:

**karma.conf.js**

```javascript
module.exports = require("@jsdevtools/karma-config")({
  sourceDir: "my/source/dir",             // Override the default sourceDir ("src")
  testDir: "my/test/dir",                 // Override the default testDir ("test")
  coverage: true,                         // Always produce a code-coverage report
  browsers: {
    firefox: false,                       // Don't test in Firefox on any OS
    ie: true,                             // Test in Internet Explorer on Windows
  }
});
```

### All Options

|Option            |Type              |Default Value            |Description
|:-----------------|:-----------------|:------------------------|:------------------------------------------------
|`browsers`        |`object`          |                         |This object allows you to specify which browsers you support.
|`browsers.chrome` |`boolean`         |`true`                   |Indicates whether Chrome is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Chrome on all OSes.
|`browsers.firefox`|`boolean`         |`true`                   |Indicates whether Firefox is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Firefox on all OSes.
|`browsers.safari` |`boolean`         |`true`                   |Indicates whether Safari is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Safari when on a Mac.
|`browsers.edge`   |`boolean`         |`true`                   |Indicates whether Edge is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Edge when on Windows.
|`browsers.ie`     |`boolean`         |`false`                  |Indicates whether Internet Explorer is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Internet Explorer when on Windows.
|`sourceDir`       |`string`          |`src`                    |The relative path of the source directory.
|`testDir`         |`string`          |`test`                   |The relative path of the test directory.
|`tests`           |`string` `string[]` `object` `object[]`|`${testDir}/**/*.spec.js` `${testDir}/**/*.test.js` `${testDir}/**/*.spec.jsx` `${testDir}/**/*.test.jsx` `${testDir}/**/*.spec.mjs` `${testDir}/**/*.test.mjs`|One or more [file patterns](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/config/files.html) that specify your test files. These are the files that will be bundled by Webpack and run by Karma.
|`fixtures`        |`string` `string[]` `object` `object[]`|none|One or more [file patterns](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/config/files.html) that specify your test fixtures. Test fixtures will be run _before_ any of your test files are loaded, which gives you an opportunity to setup the runtime environment, load polyfills, etc.
|`serve`           |`string` `string[]` `object` `object[]`|`${testDir}/**/*`|One or more [file patterns](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/config/files.html) that Karma will allow to be served. This is useful for loading test data from CSV or JSON files.
|`transpile`       |`boolean`         |`false`*                 |Indicates whether your source code should be transpiled to ES5 syntax to support older web browsers. If set to `true`, then Webpack will be configured to use Babel.<br><br>* If `browsers.ie` is enabled, then this option defaults to `true` when running on Windows. You can explicitly set it to `false` if desired.
|`coverage`        |`boolean`         |`false`                  |Indicates whether code coverage analysis should be performed. If set to `true`, then Webpack will be configured to inject code-coverage instrumentation and write code-coverage reports in the `./coverage/` directory.<br><br>This option can also be enabled by setting the `KARMA_COVERAGE` environment variable, or by using the `--coverage` command-line flag when running Karma.
|`platform`        |`string`          |[`process.platform`](https://nodejs.org/api/process.html#process_process_platform) |The operating system platform (e.g. "linux", "win32", "darwin", etc.). This determines which browsers will be launched by Karma.<br><br>This option can also be set via the `KARMA_PLATFORM` environment variable.
|`CI`              |`boolean`         |`false`                  |Indicates whether Karma is running in a CI environment. If set to `true`, then Karma will be configured to run headless browsers where possible.<br><br>This option can also be enabled by setting the `CI` or `KARMA_CI` environment variables.  Most CI/CD servers automatically set the `CI` environment variable.
|`config`          |`object`          |`{}`                     |Explicit Karma configuration settings. This is useful for adding additional settings that aren't normally set by Karma Config, or for overriding Karma Config's settings.



Contributing
--------------------------
Contributions, enhancements, and bug-fixes are welcome! [File an issue](https://github.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config/issues) on GitHub and [submit a pull request](https://github.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config/pulls).

#### Building/Testing
To build/test the project locally on your computer:

1. __Clone this repo__<br>
`git clone hhttps://github.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config.git`

2. __Install dependencies__<br>
`npm install`

3. __Build the code__<br>
`npm run build`

4. __Run the tests__<br>
`npm test`



License
--------------------------
Karma Config is 100% free and open-source, under the [MIT license](LICENSE). Use it however you want.



Big Thanks To
--------------------------
Thanks to these awesome companies for their support of Open Source developers ❤

[![Travis CI](https://jstools.dev/img/badges/travis-ci.svg)](https://travis-ci.com)
[![SauceLabs](https://jstools.dev/img/badges/sauce-labs.svg)](https://saucelabs.com)
[![Coveralls](https://jstools.dev/img/badges/coveralls.svg)](https://coveralls.io)

Commit message:

FEATURE: auto-detection of CI environments using @qawolf/ci-info

README.md, after:

Karma Config
==============================

### Karma configuration builder with sensible defaults to minimize boilerplate

[![Cross-Platform Compatibility](https://jstools.dev/img/badges/os-badges.svg)](https://travis-ci.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config)
[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config)

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/JS-DevTools/karma-config/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/JS-DevTools/karma-config?branch=master)
[![Dependencies](https://david-dm.org/JS-DevTools/karma-config.svg)](https://david-dm.org/JS-DevTools/karma-config)

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@jsdevtools/karma-config.svg?maxAge=43200)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jsdevtools/karma-config)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@jsdevtools/karma-config.svg?maxAge=2592000)](LICENSE)



[**Karma**](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/index.html) can be [**configured**](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/config/configuration-file.html) to do pretty much anything you can imagine, but you'll probably find yourself repeating the same boilerplate configuration in every project.

Karma Config eliminates the redundancy and boilerplate by applying sensible defaults so you only need to specify the one-off settings that are particular to your project.  It can reduce a typical `karma.config.js` file from dozens of lines to just two or three lines.



Features
--------------------------
- Applies sensible defaults, but will never override your settings
- Uses the appropraite browsers for the platform (e.g. Safari on Mac, Edge on Windows)
- Uses headless browsers when running in CI/CD
- Produces code-coverage reports if `KARMA_COVERAGE` env var is set, or if you add `--coverage` when running Karma



Related Projects
--------------------------
- [karma-host-environment](https://jstools.dev/karma-host-environment)<br>
  Provides host environment info (user agent, Node.js version, environment variables, etc.)



Installation
--------------------------
Use [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm/) to install Karma Config as a dev dependency.  Be sure to install [karma](https://www.npmjs.com/package/karma) and [karma-cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/karma-cli) too.

```bash
npm install --save-dev karma karma-cli @jsdevtools/karma-config
```



Usage
--------------------------

### Using Default values
For typical projects, the defaults may be all you need, in which case your config can be one line:

**karma.conf.js**

```javascript
module.exports = require("@jsdevtools/karma-config")();
```

Depending on the operating system and whether its running in a CI/CD environment, the above code will produce this config:

```javascript
{
  // Defaults to the Karma-Verbose-Reporter
  // See https://www.npmjs.com/package/karma-verbose-reporter
  reporters: ["verbose"],

  // The browsers will vary depending on the OS.
  // In CI/CD environments, FirefoxHeadless and ChromeHeadless are used instead.
  browsers: ["Firefox", "Chrome"],

  frameworks: [
    // Defaults to the Mocha test framework.
    "mocha",

    // This makes it easy to detect which browser your tests are running in.
    // Also provides access to environment variables.
    // See https://jstools.dev/karma-host-environment
    "host-environment"
  ],

  files: [
    // Assumes your tests are under the "test" folder and are named *.spec.js
    // or *.test.js.  (.mjs and .jsx file extensions are also supported)
    "test/**/*.+(spec|test).+(js|jsx|mjs)",

    // Allows your tests to dynamically access any file in the "test" folder.
    // Useful for loading test data from CSV or JSON files.
    { pattern: "test/**/*", included: false, served: true }
  ],

  preprocessors: {
    // Uses Webpack to bundle your tests and their dependencies
    "test/**/*.+(spec|test).+(js|jsx|mjs)": ["webpack"]
  },

  webpack: {
    // Webpack development mode it easier to debug failing tests
    mode: "development",

    // Inlne source maps ensure proper stack traces in errors,
    // and allow you to debug your original source code rather than bundled code.
    devtool: "inline-source-map",
  }
}
```



### Adding or Overriding Settings
You can explicitly specify any Karma settings, and Karma Config will honor them.  Your settings will be merged with the settings that Karma Config generates.  This allows you to add additional settings that aren't normally set by Karma Config.  It also allows you to override anything that Karma Config would normally generate.

**karma.conf.js**

```javascript
module.exports = require("@jsdevtools/karma-config")({
  config: {
    port: 12345,                                // Set Karma's port number
    browserNoActivityTimeout: 5000,             // Set Karma's inactivity timeout
    browsers: ["Opera", "Safari"]               // Always use these browsers, regardless of OS
    webpack: {
      mode: "production",                       // Override the default Webpack mode
      module: {
        rules: [
          { test: /\.ts$/, use: "ts-loader" }   // Configure Webpack to support TypeScript
        ]
      }
    }
  }
});
```

Another option is to use Karma Config's `buildConfig` function, which returns the generated config object.  You can then make whatever modifications you want to it before passing it to Karma.

**karma.conf.js**

```javascript
const { buildConfig } = require("@jsdevtools/karma-config");

module.exports = (karma) => {
  // Let Karma Config generate its config, as usual
  let config = buildConfig();

  // Modify the config object however you want
  config.port = 12345;
  config.browserNoActivityTimeout = 5000;
  config.browsers.push("Opera");
  config.webpack.mode = "production";
  config.webpack.module.rules.push({ test: /\.ts$/, use: "ts-loader" });

  // Pass the final config to Karma
  karma.set(config);
});
```



Options
--------------------------
Karma Config exposes a few options that allow you to control the config that it generates. Here's an example that demonstrates setting a few options:

**karma.conf.js**

```javascript
module.exports = require("@jsdevtools/karma-config")({
  sourceDir: "my/source/dir",             // Override the default sourceDir ("src")
  testDir: "my/test/dir",                 // Override the default testDir ("test")
  coverage: true,                         // Always produce a code-coverage report
  browsers: {
    firefox: false,                       // Don't test in Firefox on any OS
    ie: true,                             // Test in Internet Explorer on Windows
  }
});
```

### All Options

|Option            |Type              |Default Value            |Description
|:-----------------|:-----------------|:------------------------|:------------------------------------------------
|`browsers`        |`object`          |                         |This object allows you to specify which browsers you support.
|`browsers.chrome` |`boolean`         |`true`                   |Indicates whether Chrome is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Chrome on all OSes.
|`browsers.firefox`|`boolean`         |`true`                   |Indicates whether Firefox is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Firefox on all OSes.
|`browsers.safari` |`boolean`         |`true`                   |Indicates whether Safari is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Safari when on a Mac.
|`browsers.edge`   |`boolean`         |`true`                   |Indicates whether Edge is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Edge when on Windows.
|`browsers.ie`     |`boolean`         |`false`                  |Indicates whether Internet Explorer is supported. If `true`, then tests will be run in Internet Explorer when on Windows.
|`sourceDir`       |`string`          |`src`                    |The relative path of the source directory.
|`testDir`         |`string`          |`test`                   |The relative path of the test directory.
|`tests`           |`string` `string[]` `object` `object[]`|`${testDir}/**/*.spec.js` `${testDir}/**/*.test.js` `${testDir}/**/*.spec.jsx` `${testDir}/**/*.test.jsx` `${testDir}/**/*.spec.mjs` `${testDir}/**/*.test.mjs`|One or more [file patterns](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/config/files.html) that specify your test files. These are the files that will be bundled by Webpack and run by Karma.
|`fixtures`        |`string` `string[]` `object` `object[]`|none|One or more [file patterns](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/config/files.html) that specify your test fixtures. Test fixtures will be run _before_ any of your test files are loaded, which gives you an opportunity to setup the runtime environment, load polyfills, etc.
|`serve`           |`string` `string[]` `object` `object[]`|`${testDir}/**/*`|One or more [file patterns](https://karma-runner.github.io/3.0/config/files.html) that Karma will allow to be served. This is useful for loading test data from CSV or JSON files.
|`transpile`       |`boolean`         |`false`*                 |Indicates whether your source code should be transpiled to ES5 syntax to support older web browsers. If set to `true`, then Webpack will be configured to use Babel.<br><br>* If `browsers.ie` is enabled, then this option defaults to `true` when running on Windows. You can explicitly set it to `false` if desired.
|`coverage`        |`boolean`         |`false`                  |Indicates whether code coverage analysis should be performed. If set to `true`, then Webpack will be configured to inject code-coverage instrumentation and write code-coverage reports in the `./coverage/` directory.<br><br>This option can also be enabled by setting the `KARMA_COVERAGE` environment variable, or by using the `--coverage` command-line flag when running Karma.
|`platform`        |`string`          |[`process.platform`](https://nodejs.org/api/process.html#process_process_platform) |The operating system platform (e.g. "linux", "win32", "darwin", etc.). This determines which browsers will be launched by Karma.<br><br>This option can also be set via the `KARMA_PLATFORM` environment variable.
|`CI`              |`boolean`         |auto-detected            |Indicates whether Karma is running in a CI environment. If set to `true`, then Karma will be configured to run headless browsers where possible.<br><br>Karma Config will auto-detect [most CI environments](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@qawolf/ci-info#supported-ci-tools). This option can also be enabled by setting the `CI` or `KARMA_CI` environment variables.
|`config`          |`object`          |`{}`                     |Explicit Karma configuration settings. This is useful for adding additional settings that aren't normally set by Karma Config, or for overriding Karma Config's settings.



Contributing
--------------------------
Contributions, enhancements, and bug-fixes are welcome! [File an issue](https://github.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config/issues) on GitHub and [submit a pull request](https://github.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config/pulls).

#### Building/Testing
To build/test the project locally on your computer:

1. __Clone this repo__<br>
`git clone hhttps://github.com/JS-DevTools/karma-config.git`

2. __Install dependencies__<br>
`npm install`

3. __Build the code__<br>
`npm run build`

4. __Run the tests__<br>
`npm test`



License
--------------------------
Karma Config is 100% free and open-source, under the [MIT license](LICENSE). Use it however you want.



Big Thanks To
--------------------------
Thanks to these awesome companies for their support of Open Source developers ❤

[![Travis CI](https://jstools.dev/img/badges/travis-ci.svg)](https://travis-ci.com)
[![SauceLabs](https://jstools.dev/img/badges/sauce-labs.svg)](https://saucelabs.com)
[![Coveralls](https://jstools.dev/img/badges/coveralls.svg)](https://coveralls.io)
